=head1 NAME

bfbin2csv - convert Byfl output to a comma-separated value file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bfbin2csv>
[B<--output>=I<filename.csv>]
[B<--colsep>=I<string>]
[B<--include>=I<table_name>]
[B<--exclude>=I<table_name>]
[B<--no-table-names>]
[B<--no-column-names>]
[B<--no-data>]
[B<--flat-output>]
I<filename.byfl>

B<bfbin2csv>
B<--help>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

By default, applications instrumented with Byfl write measurement data
to a binary F<.byfl> file.  B<bfbin2csv> converts such files to
comma-separated value (F<.csv>) text files.  These can be processed
programmatically using tools such as AWK and Perl or loaded into a
spreadsheet program such as LibreOffice Calc or Microsoft Excel.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<bfbin2csv> accepts the following command-line options:

=over 8

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Output a brief usage message.

=item B<-o> I<filename.csv>, B<--output>=I<filename.csv> 

Specify the name of the output file.  By default, output is written to
the standard output device.

=item B<-c> I<string>, B<--colsep>=I<string>

Replace the comma as the column separator with I<string>.

=item B<-i> I<table_name>, B<--include>=I<table_name>

Include only the table called I<table_name> in the output, ignoring
all others.  This option can be specified repeatedly to list multiple
tables to include.

=item B<-e> I<table_name>, B<--exclude>=I<table_name>

Exclude the table called I<table_name> in the output while including
all others.  This option can be specified repeatedly to list multiple
tables to exclude.

=item B<-T>, B<--no-table-names>

Suppress the output of the table name before the table contents.

=item B<-C>, B<--no-column-names>

Suppress the output of the column names in each table.

=item B<-D>, B<--no-data>

Suppress the output of each table's data.

=item B<-f>, B<--flat-output>

Output one value per line for ease of parsing.  Each line is of the
form "I<table_name>,I<row_number>,I<column_name>,I<value>", where the
first three of those columns together uniquely identify a single
measurement.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The simplest usage is just

    $ bfbin2csv myprog.byfl -o myprog.csv

which produces F<myprog.csv>.

B<bfbin2csv> can be used to list all of the tables in a F<.byfl> file:

    $ bfbin2csv --no-column-names --no-data myprog.byfl
    "Basic blocks"
    "Functions"
    "Called functions"
    "Vector operations"
    "Program"
    "Memory accesses by data type"
    "Instruction mix"
    "Memory locality"
    "Environment variables"
    "Command line"
    "Byfl options"

Combining B<bfbin2csv> and B<awk> makes it easy to perform simple
operations on the data:

    $ bfbin2csv --include="Basic blocks" --no-table-name --no-data myprog.byfl
    "Tag","Address","Symbolic location","Load operations","Store operations","Floating-point operations","Integer operations","Unconditional and direct branch operations","Conditional or indirect branch operations","Other branch operations","Floating-point operation bits","Integer operation bits","Bytes loaded","Bytes stored","Calls to memset","Bytes stored by memset","Calls to memcpy and memmove","Bytes loaded and stored by memcpy and memmove"
    $ bfbin2csv --include="Basic blocks" --no-table-name --no-data myprog.byfl | awk -F, '{print $13, $14, $6}' 
    "Bytes loaded" "Bytes stored" "Floating-point operations"
    $ bfbin2csv --include="Basic blocks" --no-table-name --no-column-names myprog.byfl | awk -F, '$6>0 {print ($13+$14)/$6}' | sort -u
    0.8
    4
    8
    24

If the F<.byfl> file is expected to be used only to produce the CSV
file and then deleted, one can save time and disk space by writing
Byfl binary output to a named pipe and running B<bfbin2csv> on that
named pipe:

    $ mkfifo myprog.pipe
    $ bfbin2csv myprog.pipe -o myprog.csv &
    $ env BF_BINOUT=myprog.pipe ./myprog
    $ rm myprog.pipe

=head1 NOTES

The B<--no-table-names>, B<--no-column-names>, and B<--no-data>
options are ignored when B<--flat-output> is specified.

=head1 AUTHOR

Scott Pakin, I<pakin@lanl.gov>

=head1 SEE ALSO

awk(1), perl(1), bfbin2hdf5(1), bfbin2sqlite3(1), bfbin2xlxml(1),
bf-gcc(1), bf-g++(1), bf-gfortran(1), bf-gccgo(1), L<the Byfl home
page|https://github.com/losalamos/Byfl/>
