=head1 NAME

bfbin2sqlite3 - convert Byfl output to a SQLite3 database file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bfbin2sqlite3>
[B<--output>=I<filename.db>]
[B<--live-data>]
I<filename.byfl>

B<bfbin2sqlite3>
B<--help>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

By default, applications instrumented with Byfl write measurement data
to a binary F<.byfl> file.  B<bfbin2sqlite3> converts such files to
SQLite3 database files.  These can be loaded directly into the
B<sqlite3> command-line database tool or converted into other database
formats.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<bfbin2sqlite3> accepts the following command-line options:

=over 8

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Output a brief usage message.

=item B<-o> I<filename.db>, B<--output>=I<filename.db>

Specify the name of the output file.  If this option is not specified,
the name of the database file will be the same as that of the input
file but with F<.byfl> replaced with F<.db>.  (If the file name does
not end in F<.byfl> then F<.db> will be appended to the file name.)

=item B<-l>, B<--live-data>

Indicate that the input file is being generated concurrently with
B<bfbin2sqlite3>'s execution.  When B<--live-data> is specified, a
premature end of file causes B<bfbin2sqlite3> to wait for more data to
arrive instead of immediately producing an error message and aborting.

=back

In addition, the name of a binary F<.byfl> input file must be provided
on the command line.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The simplest usage is just

    $ bfbin2sqlite3 myprog.byfl

which produces F<myprog.db>.

If the F<.byfl> file is expected to be used only to produce the
SQLite3 database and then deleted, one can save time and disk space by
writing Byfl binary output to a named pipe and running
B<bfbin2sqlite3> on that named pipe:

    $ mkfifo myprog.pipe
    $ bfbin2sqlite3 myprog.pipe myprog.db &
    $ env BF_BINOUT=myprog.pipe ./myprog
    $ rm myprog.pipe

=head1 SEE ALSO

sqlite3(1), bfbin2cgrind(1), bfbin2csv(1), bfbin2hdf5(1),
bfbin2hpctk(1), bfbin2xmlss(1), bf-clang(1), bf-clang++(1), bf-gcc(1),
bf-g++(1), bf-gfortran(1), bf-gccgo(1), L<the Byfl home
page|https://github.com/losalamos/Byfl/>, L<the SQLite home
page|http://www.sqlite.org/>

=head1 AUTHOR

Scott Pakin, I<pakin@lanl.gov>
