=head1 NAME

bfbin2xmlss - convert Byfl output to XML Spreadsheet format

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bfbin2xmlss> I<input_file.byfl> [I<output_file.xml>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

By default, applications instrumented with Byfl write measurement data
to a binary F<.byfl> file.  B<bfbin2xmlss> converts such files to
Microsoft Excel XML Spreadsheet 2003 format (henceforth, "XML
Spreadsheet").  XML Spreadsheet has been superseded by Office Open XML
(ECMA-376) but is represented by a simple, single, XML file, which is
more convenient to process (e.g., with XSLT).  LibreOffice Calc,
Microsoft Excel 2003+, and Numbers for Mac (and perhaps a few other
spreadsheet programs) can read XML Spreadsheet files directly.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<bfbin2xmlss> has no command-line options.  The program accepts the
name of a F<.byfl> file to read and, optionally, an XML Spreadsheet
file to create.  If the latter is not specified, B<bfbin2xmlss> will
write to the standard output device.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The simplest usage is just

    $ bfbin2xmlss myprog.byfl myprog.xml

which produces F<myprog.xml>.  This can then be loaded into various
spreadsheet programs.

If the F<.byfl> file is expected to be used only to produce an XML
Spreadsheet file and then deleted, one can save time and disk space by
writing Byfl binary output to a named pipe and running B<bfbin2xmlss>
on that named pipe:

    $ mkfifo myprog.pipe
    $ bfbin2xmlss myprog.pipe myprog.xml &
    $ env BF_BINOUT=myprog.pipe ./myprog
    $ rm myprog.pipe

=head1 SEE ALSO

bfbin2cgrind(1), bfbin2csv(1), bfbin2hdf5(1), bfbin2hpctk(1),
bfbin2sqlite3(1), bf-clang(1), bf-clang++(1), bf-flang(1),
L<the Byfl home page|https://github.com/lanl/Byfl>,
L<the XML Spreadsheet Reference|http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa140066%28office.10%29.aspx>

=head1 AUTHOR

Scott Pakin, I<pakin@lanl.gov>
